The idea is that the air conditioner is somewhat
marginal, in that it tends to cycle too quickly
and too many times per hour.

Air conditioners do best when they rarely cycle
(because that's where the wear comes from: cycling
the compressor on and off).

To monitor this, the author needed to know the
recent history of the compressor cycling: was it
on most of the time, and for long durations, or
was it cycling a lot?

The project aims to show the history of cycling of
the air conditioner, by detecting when it is on
(quite cold air output) and when it is off (almost
warm air output).

Blue color scheme illuminated on a NeoPixel strip
(8x) means 'cold air' and Red means 'warmer air'.

Position (left to right) indicates age of the
measurement (presently set to 3 minute intervals;
this may be set to some other value).


So, two blues, followed by five blanks, followed by
a blue means that the A/C is currently ON (rightmost
blue npx) and that it's been on for about six minutes
(three minutes for each of the two blues on the left).

Suppose the machine cycles its compressor OFF in the
next minute.  What is seen on the 3-minute boundary?

BLUE - BLUE - RED - blank  blank-blank-blank-RED

The most recent record is RED (warm air) and is the
third npx from the left - that's the most recent
record (so far).  The rightmost RED one is the
current condition ('live report') and is shown to
be RED (warm).

Additional info

The air outdoors will frequently become cooler as the
evening wears on; at some point it may become too cold
to support the air conditioning idea.  Air conditioners
try to maintain a maximum of 22 degrees F between the
indoor and outdoor temperatures.  That's about where
they live; any other values go against what the air
conditioner is capable of doing.

So if it's 79F outside it can be as cold as 57F indoors,
AT THE VENT where the cold air comes out of the air
conditioner (window mounted, in this instance).

79 - 22 = 57

When the outdoor temperature drops to about 61 F, the
math shows:

  61 - 22 = 39F

So at the outdoor temperature of 61F we're getting closer
to the 32F mark on the cooling coils inside the building
(we're at 39F here).

Basically, the ACU doesn't want to cycle ON sometime after
the outdoor temperature drops below, say, 62F (this can
depend somewhat on humidity of the outdoor air).

WHEN IT STARTS to cycle rapidly (3-5 minutes ON or OFF)
it's time to consider forcing it to not cycle at all (remain
OFF as far as the compressor goes -- the fan runs independently
and isn't an issue, here, for longevity of the unit, as fans
are easily replaced).

This project wants to measure those rapid cycles, and record
them as a series of lit neopixels, in the blue-or-red color
scheme.  This way, when the human operator casually walks
into the room, and glances at the ACU, they can tell immediately
what it's been doing for the last n minutes (3x8 - n is 24 minutes
for a 3 minute interval in the program).

If there's a whole bunch of reds, the machine's been cycled down
a lot.  If there's a whole bunch of blues, it's safe to ignore
what the machine is doing for another 24 minutes - might make
the difference between a house that is uncomfortably warm all
night long, and one that was able to get cool and comfortable,
due to an air conditioner that was 'nursed' past the usual
shutdown time, to get that last bit of cooling, without undue
wear on the machine.


Also -

The air conditioner under test is a 10k btu unit, for a room that
wants about an 8k btu unit.  So it is already prone to cycling
frequently (shortening its service life by a large amount).

A fan is employed (at floor level; a good 22" diameter unit) to
move cold air from the (one) air-conditioned room in the home,
to the remainder of the dwelling (one level, no stairs).  This
has the effect (when placed exactly right) of preventing the
ACU from cycling as often, as it tends to add heat load to the
one room that is being air conditioned (by exhausting its coolest
air out of the room - presumably, warm air returns near the
ceiling, to the air conditioned room, thus promoting cooling
far from the window-mounted air conditioning unit).

One of the side-goals of the project is to adjust placement of
that fan, by (again) measuring the frequency by which the ACU
cycles down the compressor.

Another also -

When someone comes home late in the day, on a hot and humid day
(that is rapidly cooling later that evening) there may be only
a short opportunity to run the (powered-off) air conditioner,
when the person gets home after a busy day away from the home.

There are times when it is just not a good idea to run the
air conditioner when nobody's home.  Arguably, there may not
be any time when the ACU should be run, when nobody's home. ;)

So maximizing the use of it during a fairly brief time window
(from near sunset, until it becomes too cold outdoors to support
the air conditioning idea at all).

Again, part of that maximization comes from knowledge of the 
history of the unit's cycling its compressor, ON an OFF.


 - - -

Note: redundant explanations need to be condensed into a single
narrative that is not as repetitive as this first draft, is. ;)
